Running
=======
An executable jar is included in the project root. To execute: -

java -jar main.jar

Note: the folder assets/ and input.txt are required in the root to run this program. assets contains n-gram frequencies.

The program needs a input.txt in the current working directory. This is where you can specify your parameters.
The specification style is case sensitive.
A sample input.txt file is included in the project root.

Here's the different possible values for each parameter: -
---------------------------------------------------------------
popSize [Int]
maxKeySize [Int]
maxGen [Int]
encryptedString [String]
selectionSampleSize [Int]
crossOverRate [Double]
origMutationRate [Double]
elitism [true, false]
testAppendId [String]
toPlot [true, false]
mutationType [INSERTION, SCRAMBLE, SCRAMBLE_INSERTION]
crossoverType [UNIFORM, ONE_POINT]
tournamentSelectionType = tournamentSelectionType
eliminateWorst [true, false]
randomNumberSeed [Long]
end
---------------------------------------------------------------

Sample input: -
---------------------------------------------------------------
popSize 300
maxKeySize 8
maxGen 200
encryptedString xbwdesmhihslwhkktefvktkktcwfpiibihwmosfilojvooegvefwnochsuuspsureifakbnlalzsrsroiejwzgfpjczldokrceoahzshpbdwpcjstacgbarfwifwohylckafckzwwomlalghrtafchfetcgfpfrgxclwzocdctmjebx
crossOverRate 1.0
origMutationRate 0.1
testAppendId 1
toPlot true
mutationType INSERTION
crossoverType ONE_POINT
tournamentSelectionType BEST
end
---------------------------------------------------------------

Default values are used if a parameter value pair is not specified.


Files overview
===============

Source files are in src/main/java/

InputRunner.kt
--------------
This is the entry point. This file will run the ga using parameters from input.txt

GA.kt
-----
The main class for the Genetic Algorithm

Individual.kt
-------------
Has things relating to an individual, and crossover and mutation operators

TextAnalysis.kt
---------------
Has code for the fitness function.

Vigenere.java
-------------
The provided java code for encryption, decryption and fitness.

LRUCacheMap.kt
--------------
A least recently used cache, stores recently calculated fitness results.

Package: experiments
--------------------
Just testing main classes for each key and a file RunAllTests.kt which generates
the data used for analysis in the report.


Testing files
=============

I've included a limited number of testing files that have been used for the report. (All of them are 5.8 GB...)
The files are of the form .test.txt and contain information for each generation of a run.
(They can all be generated by running RunAllTests.kt, it will take forever though.)

These are the folders with these files

required/
---------
These are test files for the two different mutation and crossover rate combinations we needed to try.

fine-tuned/
-----------
These are test files with fine tuned parameters.

experiment_data/
----------------
I've included the parsed csv files used for the plots in my report. These are of the form *.test.csv


Compiling
=========
Opening the project in intelliJ should work. I did test that on one of the lab computers.

Otherwise,
Import project using intelliJ.
File>New> project from existing sources
or import project from the intelliJ start dialog

>From external model> gradle> defaults should be fine and finish.

Or, compile using gradle: -
./gradlew build
